Diploma In Packaging Technology

Who should complete a Diploma in Packaging?
Diploma in Packaging Technology Programme in association with the Irish Packaging Society and accredited by TU Dublin

Persons responsible for specifying packaging or working in a role as a Packaging Technician.
Also suited to those buying or selling packaging or those using / packing / filling in the Food, Drink and Pharmaceutical sectors.
Brand / NPD team members, Brand Owners and FMCG Product Category Managers.
People working with packaging in manufacturing or filling on a day to day basis
How do I qualify for Diploma in Packaging?
3 years experience in a packaging environment
Ideally possess a Level 6 qualification or above.
 All applications must be approved by Diploma Board for inclusion in programme.
Please send CV  to manager@dppskillnet.ie for review.
Candidates who are working in associate industries such as
packaging design,
food science/technology,
materials science/engineering, and
logistics will also be considered.
What do I achieve?
CPD Diploma in Packaging Technology.
Accredited by TU Dublin /Dublin Institute of Technology.
Level 7 on the Irish National Framework of Qualifications (NFQ).
Foundation for further study such as MSc in Packaging Technology
Membership of The Packaging Society and through it the IOM3 – a Chartered Institute.
Professional status – recognised throughout the packaging industry internationally.
The Institute opens doors throughout the packaging supply chain, from material producers and converters, through manufacturers & packer/fillers, to brand owners and retailers
When and where will the course take place
Next Start Date:     September 2023 – For More details Call Diane on 086 8520893
Cost: €2,700 per trainee.
To apply email manager@dppskillnet.ie
Diploma in Packaging Technology Programme in association with the Irish Packaging Society and accredited by TU Dublin

Participants will work toward the goal of the level 7 CPD Diploma accredited by TU Dublin.

The Programme comprises 5 units/modules

1. Fundamentals of Packaging Technology and Packaging in the Supply Chain:

The Role & History of Packaging
The Functions of Packaging
Hazards of the Supply Chain
Distribution Packaging
Product Fragility & Test Methods
Computer Aided Packaging Design

2 . Packaging Materials & Containers I:

Glass Packaging Manufacture
Glass Packaging Containers
Rigid Metal Packaging
Aluminium Foil Packaging
Paper and Cartonboard packaging
Corrugated Cardboard Packaging

3 . Packaging Materials & Containers II:

Basics of Polymer Chemistry
Plastic Properties
Plastic Manufacturing Processes
Packaging Closures
Packaging Adhesives
Labels and Labelling

4 . Packaging Printing and Decorating & Packaging Machinery:

Printing for Packaging
Digital Printing
Packaging Machinery
Packaging Line Operations
Packaging Filling Systems

5 . Research Project

5000 word dissertation


